Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to demonstrate a solution to our previous challenge which was implementing a
singleton for a cricket match regarding a single captain.
So let's go ahead and bring up intelligent men to create a new project it's just been named Singleton
solution and it's going to meet the requirements of the challenge.
So we know most of how to do this.
So let's just call it a singleton solution.
All right I'm going to start off by creating my singleton class and preview examples I've always named
the singleton and that's usually a good name for the class if it is a singleton.
But you also want to make the name somewhat relatable so I'm going to name this class make captain and
again not a great name because usually class names you want to have them as nouns.
This is more of a verb but again it's demonstrating the singleton and I'm not going to worry about naming
conventions too much.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to use the bill Pugh solution to create my Singleton instead.
So if you remember from the implementation we're not going to create our instance inside of our main
class we're going to create in the static nested class first thing we have to do for all static or all
Singleton implementations.
We have to create a private constructor so we're gonna do that.
This ensures that no clients can actually create an instance of this object directly using new.
So we'll do that and then we're gonna offer a bill Pugh solution for implementing the singleton and
this is just creating that static inter class nested class.
So here I'm going to create and this usually is the same name for the static nested class singleton
help private static class singleton helper.
Remember this is gonna create the contain the actual instance and then instantiate it in the get instance
method or whatever you want to call it.
So here we're going to act we're gonna say our private static final make a captain because it has to
be a singleton make a big captain and this is just gonna be our captain we're going to use an underscore
since private can name again however you want and we're gonna say new make a captain.
All right.
But this actually won't happen in class loading because it won't happen until the Singleton helpers
actually access which will be inside the get instance method.
So here we're just again creating our instance variable and instantiating it automatically.
We now have two and actually I should just put a comment in here saying this nested class is referenced
after and we're going to call the gate instance in this case get Captain get captain is called.
So now we create our public static returns a singleton and make a captain and it's gonna say get captain
and all this is gonna do is return the reference to the inner class.
So it's going to return Singleton helper dot underscore.
Captain
all right.
And then we're going to end our brackets and we've got the bracket for the static method and their brackets
there make sure other brackets line up.
And there we go and that's implementing the Singleton using the bill Pugh solution pretty straightforward.
Right.
We have our private constructor we have our Singleton nested inter class we have our instance variable
that's gonna get instantiated looks like it's gonna get the statue to class loading which will happen
when we call the get Captain method and we access that member.
Now we have to implement a test or remain class that demonstrates that this works.
Somebody create the main actually in the same class as make captain and when to have a public static
void main again pretty straightforward stuff.
And what this is gonna do is I'll first print out a couple I'll put statements that specify what we're
trying to do so I'm going to print out that this is a demo for the Singleton pattern and that also we're
gonna try to make captain so a couple of statements so we know what's going on then I'm gonna to actually
try to create a captain and since we haven't created one before it should work the way we create one
is we just call the get captain so we say make a captain dot kit Captain
something like that.
I do have a problem with the red there.
I want to make sure that the single the helper class ends with the instance variable and the method
is actually part of the make Captain class.
So there we go.
And now that red goes away we also want to test by creating another instance as I mentioned we're gonna
display a message first saying trying to print trying to create another object so we'll just say trying
to make another captain for our team and then all we can do is we can compare references after we create
this other one to make sure that they are singletons so we can may say make Captain see two equals make
Captain dot get Captain
which will return the same.
And then we can verify that by saying if c 1 equal C 2 we can just print out a message saying c 1 and
C two are the same instance right.
And notice we use the equals equals here because that will they'll compare references not the contents
of the object so let's go out and compile and run this and see what the output is so we compiled successfully.
Let's make sure you run this.
OK so we ran it and we see the output Singleton paddle pattern demo.
We try to make a captain for our team we try to make another captain for our team that doesn't succeed.
And in fact C1 and C two are the same instance.
So there we go.
This is how you can implement the Singleton using Bill P approach.
Notice again no member variable inside the make a captain for the instance.
Right.
We have a static in her class.
We close that in her class by just having the instance in there that actually doesn't get loaded until
we call get help there get Captain which is the same as get instance.
We then create a couple instances make sure the same and we're good to go thank you.